Callings

captain
He stood up, and seemed suddenly to grow taller. In his eyes gleamed
a light, keen and commanding.
When the world is on the brink of ruin, it is the duty of all
individuals of worth to rise and take the lead, whatever the
risk. You have chosen to put your judgement to the service of
others, to guide them in this dark hour. But you don’t want
others to heed your commands out of fear or obedience —
you want them to follow you because they trust you.
FAVOURED SKILLS
Choose two Skills among BATTLE, ENHEARTEN, and PERSUADE
and mark them as Favoured.
ADDITIONAL DISTINCTIVE
FEATURE: LEADERSHIP
You possess the ability to direct others to action. When under
pressure, other people naturally turn to you for guidance.
SHADOW PATH: LURE OF POWER
When individuals are given a position of authority, either by
rank, lineage, or stature, they may end up mistaking their
own aggrandisement for the greater good of the people they
should be guiding or keeping safe. Power is the quintessential
temptation, and provides the Shadow with an easy way to win
the hearts of those who desire it.

champion
“War must be, while we defend our lives against a destroyer who
would devour all…”
You deem that there is but one way to oppose the return of
the Shadow, and that it is to conquer it by strength of arms.
You are recognised as a warrior among your folk, a valiant
fighter, onward into battle. For you, the road to adventure
leads straight to wherever your foes prowl or hide.
FAVOURED SKILLS
Choose two Skills among ATHLETICS, AWE, and HUNTING
and mark them as Favoured.

ADDITIONAL DISTINCTIVE
FEATURE: ENEMY-LORE
Enemy-lore
is not a single Distinctive Feature; you must
select the type of enemies it applies to, choosing from
Evil Men, Orcs, Spiders, Trolls, Wargs, and Undead. This
Distinctive Feature gives you knowledge of the characteristics,
habits, strengths, and weaknesses of your chosen
enemy.
SHADOW PATH: CURSE OF VENGEANCE
Individuals who live by the sword are ever tempted to
draw it, either literally or figuratively, when their will is
thwarted or when they deem their honour to have been
impugned by an insult. As corruption spreads in their spirit,
their behaviour worsens, leading to more extreme violent
reactions.

messenger
“Elrond is sending Elves, and they will get in touch with the Rangers,
and maybe with Thranduil’s folk in Mirkwood.”
The Wise hold that evil days lie ahead, and that to keep hope,
all who fight the Enemy must be as one. Yet, many miles and
centuries of isolation separate the Free Peoples, and estrangement
breeds mistrust. You have decided that it is your duty to
travel to distant lands, carrying tidings and warning people
of the coming danger.
FAVOURED SKILLS
Choose two Skills among COURTESY, SONG, and TRAVEL and
mark them as Favoured.
ADDITIONAL DISTINCTIVE
FEATURE: FOLK-LORE
You possess some knowledge of the many traditional customs,
beliefs, and stories of the various communities that
compose the Free Peoples. Likely the result of your wanderings,
this information may help you when dealing with
strangers, allowing you to come up with some useful facts
regarding their folk or a smattering of the appropriate
language.
SHADOW PATH: WANDERING-MADNESS
Travelling afar might be the duty chosen by a messenger,
but it carries the risk of never finding a place to
fight for. The Road goes ever on and on, it’s true, but
whither then?
scholar
“Speak no secrets! Here is a scholar in the Ancient Tongue.”
For you, knowledge makes the wild world a less threatening
place. Yellowed maps in lost books replace a fear of the
unknown with curiosity and wonder, songs composed in
ages past strengthen the weariest of hearts. A love of learning
guides your every step, and illuminates the way for you
and those who listen to your advice.
FAVOURED SKILLS
Choose two Skills among CRAFT, LORE, and RIDDLE and
mark them as Favoured.
ADDITIONAL DISTINCTIVE
FEATURE: RHYMES OF LORE
Rhymes of Lore are short verses created by many Cultures to
help them remember significant facts from ancient history
which might otherwise be lost. Scholars of Middle-earth
credit
much of their ancient knowledge to such rhymes.
SHADOW PATH: LURE OF SECRETS
Inquisitiveness and curiosity are desirable virtues in an individual,
but knowledge can be put to malicious use, and learned individuals
can look down on others as ignorant fools. Secrets are dangerous,
as the very desire of uncovering them may corrupt the heart.

treasure hunter
Far over the Misty Mountains cold, To dungeons deep and caverns
old. We must away ere break of day, To seek the pale enchanted gold.
The world has seen the passing of the glory of many Dwarven
kings and Elven lords, and their heritage is now buried
in Orc-infested
dungeons. Hoards of stolen gold and jewels,
guarded by fell beasts, beckon all who dare to find them.
You seek to recover what is lost, even when it means braving
unspeakable dangers.
FAVOURED SKILLS
Choose two Skills among EXPLORE, SCAN, and STEALTH and
mark them as Favoured.
ADDITIONAL DISTINCTIVE
FEATURE: BURGLARY
This venerable talent includes pickpocketing, lock picking
and, in general, any shadowy way to get hold of the possessions
of others or access protected areas.

SHADOW PATH: DRAGON-SICKNESS
Adventurers who find themselves on the Road to seek
lost riches run the risk of catching the age-old
disease
capable of turning a pile of enchanted gold into bitter
ashes. As the Shadow tightens its grip on their hearts,
the world shrinks around them and their closely guarded
possessions.

warden
“Travellers scowl at us, and countrymen give us scornful names.”
In this age of the world, when shadows grow deeper with every
passing year, you have sworn to defend all who cannot defend
themselves. Often, your choice forces you to forsake civilised
areas, to better guard their inhabitants from what lurks right
outside their fences. This has made you a stranger in the eyes
of the common folk, a threatening figure like those you are
protecting them from.
FAVOURED SKILLS
Choose two Skills among AWARENESS, HEALING, and INSIGHT
and mark them as Favoured.
ADDITIONAL DISTINCTIVE
FEATURE: SHADOW-LORE
You have recognised that there is a hidden thread unifying
most of what is malicious, dark, and terrible in Middle-earth,
and that the thread is thickening year after year. A quality
shared by the wise of the land, the truth behind this knowledge
is becoming clearer as time passes.
SHADOW PATH: PATH OF DESPAIR
Self-doubt
is often the way that the Shadow chooses to reach
the heart of those who oppose it. For they know that the
Enemy is strong and terrible and that those they protect are
too naive or weak to fend for themselves. Every day they ask
themselves: will my strength be enough to prevail, or will I
drag down the innocent in defeat?