Experience

EXPERIENCE MILESTONES
In The One Ring, Experience Points are earned according to the
passage of your gameplay sessions. By default, each player earns
3 Skill points and 3 Adventure points at the end of every gaming
session (see page 56 of The One Ring core rules). If this works
for the format of your Strider Mode sessions, there’s no need to
adjust these rewards. But one advantage of solo pen-and-
paper
roleplaying is flexibility — your sessions might last for a few
minutes or a few hours, which can make session-based
rewards
disconnected from events and achievements in your story.
If you prefer to earn Skill points untethered from the
structure of specific sessions, you can instead mark the growth
of your character through Milestones.
Milestones are key events, experiences, and accomplishments
for your hero. When you achieve a milestone shown
in the table below, gain the listed amount of Skill points or
Adventure points.
If more than one milestone applies to a scene or challenge,
select only one. For example, if you defeat a band of
Orcs as part of a Noteworthy Encounter, you could take the
milestone as either a Noteworthy Encounter or a dangerous
combat, but not both.
Experience Points are otherwise managed as per the standard
The One Ring rules. Your Player-hero
earns a number of
additional Skill points equal to their WITS rating during each
Yule Fellowship Phase (see page 120 of The One Ring core rules).
Experience points are spent on training and growth during the
Fellowship Phase (see page 119 of The One Ring core rules).
EXPERIENCE MILESTONES
MILESTONE REWARD
Accept a mission from a patron 1 Adventure Point
Achieve a notable personal goal 1 Adventure Point
and 1 Skill Point
Complete a patron’s mission 1 Adventure Point
and 1 Skill Point
Complete a meaningful journey 2 Skill Points
Face a Noteworthy Encounter during
a journey
1 Skill Point
Reveal a significant location or
discovery
1 Adventure Point
Overcome a tricky obstacle 1 Skill point
Participate in a Council 1 Skill Point
Survive a dangerous combat 1 Adventure Point
Face a Revelation Episode 1 Adventure Point