Fortune Table

ACTION RESOLUTION
As a solo player, you must decide when rolls are necessary,
a task that usually falls to the Loremaster.
It might seem
counterintuitive
to challenge your own Player-hero’s
success,
but consider that each roll of the dice in The One Ring presents
equal opportunity for triumph and despair.
Roll when risk is involved — when the possibility of failure
affects the narrative. For further guidance, see “When to
Roll” on page 16 of The One Ring core rules.
SETTING THE TARGET NUMBER
Using the alternative presented in The One Ring core rules
(page 18), solo players should set the Target Number (TN)
by subtracting their Attributes from 18 instead of 20. This will
make your Player-hero
more capable and self-reliant
when
they must face the challenges of Middle-earth
alone.
READING THE FEAT DIE
When you are taking action, and want to give the challenge
additional focus in a dramatic moment, use a result that
includes the Gandalf Rune or Eye of Sauron icon to
represent circumstances and events beyond the control of
your Player-hero.
♦ Rolling the rune means a successful action was
bolstered by fortune, such as unexpected aid, advantageous
terrain, or a foe’s folly. To help inspire a random
result, roll on the Fortune Table.
♦ Rolling a failure with the icon means a failure was
complicated by ill-fortune,
such as a broken weapon,
difficult terrain, or enemy reinforcements. To help
inspire a random result, roll on the Ill-Fortune
Table.
Keep in mind that you’re free to gloss over a or result.
Just consider the nature of the success or failure in the context
of the situation, and move on. For worthy challenges and
key actions, the Fortune and Ill-Fortune
tables can help reveal
new complications, twists, and unexpected boons.

FORTUNE TABLE
FEAT DIE RESULT
Sauron The Eye of the Enemy focuses elsewhere.
Decrease Eye Awareness by 1.
1 You may bypass a threat without attracting
notice
2 You gain the attention of a potential ally
3 An enemy inadvertently reveals their position
4 You gain favoured ground
5 Enemies run afoul of danger
6 You locate or learn of a useful item
7 Your success instils new hope or renewed
resolve
8 You find a moment of comfort or safety
9 You learn or realize something which gives
helpful insight into your mission
10 You encounter an opportunity suited to your
nature or abilities
Gandalf An unexpected ally appears or sends aid

ILL-FORTUNE
TABLE
FEAT DIE RESULT
Sauron Your actions catch the Eye of the Enemy.
Increase Eye Awareness by 2.
1 You draw unwanted attention
2 Your actions are observed by someone of
ill-intent
3 Unexpected enemies emerge or are sighted
4 You are hindered by difficult terrain or an unfavourable
environment
5 You find yourself ill-equipped
for the
circumstances
6 A favoured weapon or item is lost, broken, or
sacrificed
7 You are plagued by troubling visions or
thoughts
8 An old injury or stress resurfaces
9 You learn or realize something which adds a
new complication to your mission
10 You face a test which is contrary to your nature
or abilities
Gandalf An ally becomes a hindrance or liability