SPECIAL SUCCESS IN STRIDER MODE
When a successful action also produces one or more Elvish
symbols on your Success Dice, this is a superior result (see
page 18 of The One Ring core rules). Unlike the whims of fortune
and ill-fortune
indicated by a rune or icon on the
Feat Dice, this outcome can be interpreted as a direct result
of your character’s preparedness and skills.
If you want to detail the nature and benefits of a superior
result for solo play, you can use the table above, which is an
alternative to the Special Success table on page 19 of The
One Ring core rules. As with that version of the table, you can
specify what your superior result means by ‘spending’ your
rolled icons to trigger a number of special results. Choose
one of the options listed for each rolled.
In combat, icons are instead used to trigger special
results based on the war gear of the attacker (see page 99 of
The One Ring core rulebook). Also, some Cultural Virtues provide
specific benefits for icons. If a result for a is already
detailed by other rules or a character ability, use that instead
of the Special Success table.
USING RISK LEVELS
For Strider Mode, it is recommended to use Risk Levels (page
131 of The One Ring core rulebook) when visualizing and resolving
a risky action. This will add more variety to the outcome
of a failed action and aid you in resolving the consequences.
Most actions you take should be at a Standard Risk Level.
This is the default unless you decide the situation warrants
otherwise before making a roll. If appropriate to the circumstances,
and if it aids in moving your story forward, you
can choose to trade failure on a Standard action for success
marred by a negative occurrence.
Risk Levels can help manage the intensity of your adventures.
As dangers and failures mount up, increase the Risk
Level to make the situation more perilous.
The three Risk Levels and the consequences of a failed
outcome for each are summarized in the table below.
If you are ever unsure about the Risk Level of a challenge,
use the Telling Table (see next page). Ask the Telling Table
“is this a Standard Risk Level?”, making the result “likely”. If
the answer is “no”, make it Hazardous. If the answer is “no”
with an icon, make it Foolish.
SKILL SPECIAL SUCCESS TABLE
SPEND 1 SUCCESS
ICON TO… DESCRIPTION
Gain Insight You gain additional information, not necessarily related to the task at hand. For example, while helping a
sick individual with a HEALING roll you discover the trace of poison. Or you spot a sentry while sneaking
into a ruin with a roll of STEALTH.
Go quietly You achieve your goal noiselessly or without otherwise attracting attention.
Make haste You complete the attempted task in a shorter time (about half the expected time).
Widen Influence You can influence more than the specific number of subjects originally targeted by the action. As a
general rule, each Success icon spent corresponds to one additional subject or group of subjects. For
example, following a roll of INSIGHT, you spot a second person acting suspiciously at an inn; a roll of
ENHEARTEN aimed to affect half a dozen individuals allows you to influence a full dozen.
Build advantage You carry forward your success to improve your position or confidence for a related task; gain (1d) on your
next skill roll.
Cancel a Failure If playing co-op
with other players, you help another Player-hero
who failed within the scope of the same
skill roll; the failed roll is considered a success.
RISK LEVELS
RISK LEVEL THE FAILED ROLL RESULTS IN… EXAMPLES
Standard Simple Failure,
OR Success with Woe
Eluding the watch of a Bounder in the Shire, entertaining a crowd of inebriated
patrons at an inn, climbing a tall tree.
Hazardous Failure with Woe Stealing mushrooms from a farm guarded by ferocious dogs, climbing atop a
crumbling tower, or trying to swim the waters of a swift-running
river.
Foolish Disaster! Picking the pockets of a hungry Troll, playing a riddle game with a Dragon, or
bandying words with an angry Wizard.

(il y a certains espaces vides dans le texte, remplace les par "Elvish symbols", "Gandalf rune" ou "Sauron Icon" selon le contexte. )