Starting gear

All heroes start their adventuring career fully equipped with
all the personal items and gear they consider best suited to
a life on the road. In the game, such possessions are represented
by an adventurer’s war gear, travelling gear, and
useful items.

war gear
Adventuring is a demanding task, often requiring heroes to
march for hours on end, along mountain paths or traversing
fast-flowing
rivers — wise heroes should fight the urge to
choose the biggest weapons and the heaviest suits of armour,
as a weighty and cumbersome burden is bound to seriously
hamper their capabilities.
Before the game starts, players get to choose the weapons
and armour they want their characters to carry, using the War
Gear lists found overleaf (more details are found in the Gear
section, on page 73).
Starting heroes can choose one weapon for each
Combat Proficiency for which they have a rating,
and their preferred selection of armour, helms, or
shields.
Players should record their chosen weapons, armour and
shields on their character sheets, paying attention to the following
notes:
The PROTECTION score of a coat of armour is
recorded separately from that of a helm (as sometimes,
during combat, a hero might resort to dropping
it to reduce the carried Load and avoid becoming
Weary too soon).
Shields do not offer direct protection, but make a hero less
likely to be hit, by providing a bonus to Parry.
A shield’s rating is recorded separately from the main
box devoted to Parry, as a shield can be smashed by
an opponent’s blows.

WEAPONS:
WEAPON DAMAGE INJURY LOAD COMBAT PROFICIENCY NOTES
Unarmed 1 — 0 Brawling* Includes throwing stones. Cannot
cause a Piercing Blow
Dagger 2 14 0 Brawling* Can trigger Pierce as if it was a Sword
(see page 99)
Cudgel 3 12 0 Brawling* —
Club 4 14 1 Brawling* —
Short Sword 3 16 1 Swords —
Sword 4 16 2 Swords —
Long Sword 5 16 (1h)/18 (2h) 3 Swords Can be used 1 or 2-handed
Short Spear 3 14 2 Spears Can be thrown
Spear 4 14 (1h)/16 (2h) 3 Spears Can be 1 or 2-handed. Can be thrown
Great Spear 5 16 4 Spears 2-handed
Axe 5 18 2 Axes —
Long-hafted
Axe 6 18 (1h)/20 (2h) 3 Axes Can be used 1 or 2-handed
Great Axe 7 20 4 Axes 2-handed
Mattock 7 18 3 Axes 2-handed
Bow 3 14 2 Bows Ranged weapon. 2-handed
Great Bow 4 16 4 Bows Ranged weapon. 2-handed
* Weapons used to make Brawling Attacks (see page 67).

ARMOUR:
ARMOUR PROTECTION LOAD TYPE
Leather Shirt 1d 3 Leather armour
Leather
Corslet
2d 6 Leather armour
Mail-shirt**
3d 9 Mail armour
Coat of Mail** 4d 12 Mail armour
Helm* +1d 4 Headgear
* May be removed in combat to lower Load.
** See Standard of Living requirements on page 100.
SHIELDS:
SHIELDS PARRY MODIFIER LOAD
Buckler +1 2
Shield** +2 4
Great Shield** +3 6
** See Standard of Living requirements on page 100.

travelling gear
A hero’s travelling gear includes the belongings that adventurers
carry when on a journey, in addition to their weapons and
armour. In winter, this includes boots and thick, warm clothes
— a jacket, a fur-lined
cloak, woollen hose (trousers), and blankets.
During the warmer months, the adventurer may do away
with the heaviest items, and just include light clothes and cloaks.
Travelling gear does need to be annotated in detail
on a character’s sheet only if a player wishes to do so,
and is not given a Load rating.
useful items
Any tool, instrument, or device carried by a Player-hero
to
perform one or more specific tasks is a useful item. Things
like a hammer, or a hunting knife, a coil of good rope, a lantern,
or flint and steel to start a fire, and so on.
These are items that may gain the Player-heroes
an advantage
in game terms, but that also may allow them to do things
that could not be done at all without them — for example,
digging a hole in frozen ground can hardly be accomplished
without a pickaxe.
Players are free to choose their useful items, possibly
inventing a reason why a particular object is so handy —
options include a particular craftsmanship, or another exotic
feature. The item can also be some form of consumable or
perishable goods, like a bottle of liquor, or a balm — in that
case, the Player-hero
is considered to always have a supply that
will last for the length of the Adventuring Phase.
Useful items are listed on a Player-hero’s
character sheet. To
determine if they gain a Player-hero
an advantage, they must be associated
with a Skill, possibly along with a brief definition of their use.
If a Player-hero
is making a roll outside of combat
using a Skill associated with a useful item, and the
Loremaster
deems that this should grant the hero an
advantage, the Player-hero
gains (1d). Only one item
can benefit the same die roll.
All Player-heroes
start the game with a number of useful items
based on their Standard of Living, according to the table below.

USEFUL ITEMS:
STANDARD
OF LIVING CULTURE
NUMBER OF
USEFUL ITEMS
Poor — none
Frugal Elves, Rangers 1 item
Common Hobbits, Men of Bree 2 items
Prosperous Bardings, Dwarves 3 items
Rich or Very Rich — 4 items

LOAD
Selecting the right amount of things to carry is the first
test of a hero’s mettle, and a light pack on a traveller’s
back is an indication of their experience in the trade.
In game terms, the hindrance that carried items cause
to an adventurer, both in terms of weight and discomfort,
is represented by a Load rating.
Load is monitored only as far as War Gear and
Treasure is concerned. All heroes are considered
to carry without discomfort a reasonable amount
of personal items and gear for a life on the road
(their Travelling Gear, carried also with the help
of their pack animals — see Hobbit Ponies and
Full-sized
Horses, on page 50).
An adventurer can carry a total Load up to the character’s
maximum Endurance. Since the Endurance score determines
when a hero starts getting tired, it is generally much
wiser to keep that total much lower than the maximum
allowed (see Endurance, on page 69).
Players keep track of their hero’s Load score
on their character sheets, and must update it
should it change during play — If they add or
remove pieces of War Gear or Treasure to what
the Player-hero
normally carries, the Load
rating is immediately adjusted to reflect the
increased or reduced burden.

EXAMPLES OF USEFUL ITEMS
♦ A knife for skinning rabbits, a little box of salt
to cook (HUNTING),
♦ A coil of rope with grappling hook to climb
(ATHLETICS),
♦ A wind-proof
lantern (SCAN)
♦ An exotic musical instrument (SONG)
♦ A balm to soothe pain (HEALING)
♦ A suit of expensive clothing, earrings of pearl
(AWE or COURTESY)
♦ A liquor to infuse strength (ENHEARTEN)
♦ A sunstone to navigate in bad weather
(EXPLORE)
♦ A fine pipe to find comfort (INSIGHT)
♦ A detailed set of maps (TRAVEL)
♦ A set of instruments to carve stone (CRAFT).

ahnodbb fiut-ponies
ll-sized
horses
The best asset of an efficient travelling Company is an appropriate
number of ponies or horses to ride or to employ as
baggage-carriers.
The number and quality of the mounts
available to the Player-heroes
depends on their individual
Standard of Living (see the table below) but are kept track
of as a shared asset.
Ponies are sturdy little beasts; they cannot go much faster
than a normal walking pace, especially when loaded with
stores and tackle, but are good to help the Player-heroes
cope
with the toil of spending long hours on the road. Horses can
go faster (see the Journey chapter, page 108), but few such
animals are seen in the North, and most are used as pack
animals or draught beasts.
The usefulness of ponies and horses as far as journeys are
concerned is based on their Vigour rating.
While travelling, all Player-heroes
gain a number of
points of Travel Fatigue, as a result of journey events.
At the end of a journey, Player-heroes
travelling with
a mount reduce their Fatigue total by their beast’s
Vigour rating (see the rules for journeys, on page 108).
Additionally, ponies and horses can be laden with those riches
the Player-heroes
discover in the course of their adventuring
(see Treasure, on page 158).
Each pack animal can carry Treasure up to 10 points
of Load.
“In the end he would only take two small
chests, one filled with silver, and the other with
gold, such as one strong pony could carry.”

PONIES AND HORSES:
STANDARD OF LIVING MOUNT TYPE AND QUALITY VIGOUR
Poor or Frugal The hero cannot afford a mount —
Common The hero brings an old horse, or half-starved
pony 1
Prosperous The hero brings a decent beast 2
Rich or Very Rich The hero brings a fine beast 3