Strider Mode

PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE
When allocating your previous experience (page 46 in The
One Ring core rules), you have 15 points to spend, instead
of 10. This represents your Player-hero’s
additional “grit”
and experience afforded by their lone wanderings across
Middle-earth.
YOUR SAFE HAVEN
Without a Company at your side, the safe haven is a particularly
important aspect of your Player-hero’s
story. It’s there you
find allies, friends, perhaps even family. Consider why your safe
haven represents not only sanctuary for your Player-hero,
but
also home — a hearth always lit to guide you back from the wilds.
FELLOWSHIP SCORE
As a solo player, you have a Fellowship score equal to 3 plus
any additional bonuses from Virtues, Cultural Blessings, and
your Patron. Your Fellowship score, rather than representing
the bonds between you and your Company, instead signifies
your connection to the communities you serve and the wilds
you roam — a hope that cannot be diminished by the Shadow.
Joel Guilbault (Order #45901708)
YOUR ADVENTURER
5
FELLOWSHIP FOCUS
When playing as a solo Player-hero,
you are not a member
of a Company and do not have a Fellowship Focus. You can
ignore this aspect of character creation.
VIRTUES
When selecting Virtues, read the description and look for any
Company-specific
benefits. Since you aren’t travelling as part
of a Fellowship, those abilities won’t factor into your story.
Some Cultural Virtues provide benefits solely for a Company.
For example, the Hobbit Virtue Three is Company offers
an increased Fellowship score and additional Fellowship
Focus. A solo player benefits from extra Fellowship points,
but not necessarily an additional Fellowship Focus, so this
virtue is not recommended in Strider Mode.
Other Virtues provide benefits for a Company, but are
also worthwhile for a lone character. For example, the Barding
Virtue Dwarf-friend
provides a benefit for combat when
your Fellowship focus is a Dwarf, which would not be useful
in a Strider Mode campaign. But it also improves your
interactions with Dwarves during a council. It’s up to you to
decide if the trade-off
is worth it. Since you are a lone Player-hero,
you don’t need to worry about balancing your abilities
against others in a Company. Choose what best fits the nature
of your character.
NEW DISTINCTIVE FEATURE: STRIDER
Wandering the wilds of Middle-earth
alone hardens the spirit
and sharpens the senses as you are forced to remain ever-watchful
for perils in the periphery. Solo Player-heroes
receive
an extra Distinctive Feature: Strider. While journeying, the
Player-hero
is considered Inspired on skill rolls.