The Company (onglet à part)

the company
“I am looking for someone to share in an adventure that I am arranging,
and it’s very difficult to find anyone.”
Adventurers know that burdens are easier to bear when
shared with others. That’s one of the reasons why they gather
in a Company, a group united by a common cause — be it to
fight the Enemy, lead a hunt for a prized prey, or scour the
land seeking lost or stolen treasure.
The creation of the Company is a procedure that can be
used to wrap a character creation session, or that can take
place right before the first Adventuring Phase. The players
introduce their adventurers and determine the circumstances
that brought them together — in general, it is good to assume
that the Company has been together for some time already

when the game begins. The Loremaster
assists the players,
providing suggestions and advice.
To create the Company, the players and the Loremaster
must follow the sequence described below:
1. Choose a Patron
2. Choose a Safe Haven
3. Determine the Company’s Fellowship
rating
4. Choose Fellowship
Focuses
patron
A Company may be brought together by chance or design. If
it’s not chance, then the meeting of the Player-heroes
might
have been directly arranged by one of the Wise and the Great
of Middle-earth
— their Patron.
A Patron is an influential individual who has taken an
interest in the group, and that in the course of the game
will offer the Company additional reasons to go adventuring,
often providing both support and counsel. All Patrons work
with the Player-heroes
from time to time, following a personal
agenda, but in general hoping to influence the events
that are going to shape Middle-earth
in the years to come.
The Company starts the game choosing one Patron
among those listed below (but additional ones may be
added in the course of the game).
To select their Patron, the players should check their characteristics,
and pick the one whose potential agenda seems
more in agreement with their own goals as a group — for
example, the list of Callings favoured by a Patron can be
used as a good indication of what that individual might ask
a Company as a favour or service in the course of play. The
identity of the chosen Patron is recorded on the Company
log sheet.
As can be seen by consulting the table below, all Patrons
may provide a Fellowship
Bonus, effectively raising the number
of Fellowship
points available to the members of the Company,
and another peculiar form of advantage, usually connected
to the expenditure of Fellowship
points (see Fellowship
Rating, page 54).
Player-heroes
gain the opportunity to go and see a
Patron when they are in the same place during a Fellowship
Phase, choosing the Meet Patron undertaking (see
page 121).


STARTING PATRONS:
PATRON FAVOURED CALLINGS
FELLOWSHIP
POINTS ADDITIONAL ADVANTAGE AGENDA
Balin, son of Fundin Captain, Champion +1 Spend Fellowship
to make a
combat roll Favoured.
Reclaim lost strongholds,
eliminate enemy lieutenants,
etc.
Bilbo Baggins Treasure Hunter,
Scholar
+2 Raise Fellowship
by +1 when
choosing the Meet Patron undertaking
to visit Bilbo.
Recover lost lore and lost
things.
Círdan the
Shipwright
Messenger, Scholar +1 Spend Fellowship
to roll again all
dice in a roll. Choose the Meet
Patron undertaking to receive a
rumour.
Rekindle hope, preserve
the lore of the Ages.
Gandalf the Grey Messenger, Captain +2 Spend Fellowship
to make a
Shadow Test Favoured.
Warn the Free Peoples,
inspire them to action.
Gilraen, daughter
of Dírhael
Champion, Warden 0 Resolve Journey Events within
the old realm of Arnor as if in a
Border Land. Choose the Meet
Patron undertaking to receive a
rumour.
Fight the Enemy, defend
the weak.
Tom Bombadil and
Lady Goldberry
Warden, Treasure
Hunter
+2 Spend all your Fellowship
to call
Tom or Goldberry’s intervention
anywhere in Tom’s country.
Protect the land, find
and preserve what was
buried.

the safe haven
The safe haven of the Company is a location that works as the
starting base of operations for the group, and as its refuge
to repair to for the Fellowship
Phase. Usually, it’s the place
where the Player-heroes
gathered for the first time.
In Eriador, the ideal choice for a starting safe
haven is certainly the village of Bree, as it stands
at the crossroads of the East Road and North Road,
and everyone who journeys across the land stops
at The Prancing Pony for a pipe to smoke in comfort
(see Chapter 9 for more information about
Bree and its inn).
In the course of their exploration of Eriador the Company
will find new places suitable to be used as safe havens,
widening their options — for example, a Company might
eventually add the city of Tharbad and Rivendell as possible
safe havens.
The Inn of Bree … was a meeting place for the idle,
talkative, and inquisitive among the inhabitants,
large and small, of the four villages; and a resort
of Rangers and other wanderers, and for such
travellers (mostly dwarves) as still journeyed on
the East Road, to and from the Mountains.

fellowship
rating
The group of Player-heroes
is more than a band of roving
mercenaries brought together by mere necessity. At its foundation
are communal goals and a mutual respect. This feeling
of trust is recreated in the game by the Company’s Fellowship
score.
Expressed by a numerical value, Fellowship
is a pool of
points shared among all Player-heroes
that is mainly spent to
recover lost confidence:
During the Adventuring Phase, Player-heroes
can
spend points of Fellowship
to recover points of Hope
when resting (see page 71),
Additionally, Fellowship
can be spent to trigger special effects
tied to the Company’s Patron (see Patrons, page 52).

The starting Fellowship
score of the Company is equal
to the number of Player-heroes
in the group; this value
can be augmented by a number of Virtues or Cultural
Blessings, and by a bonus associated with the Company’s
Patron.
Once calculated, the Company’s Fellowship
score is recorded
by all players on their character sheets, in the designated
space. For every point of Fellowship spent, all Player-heroes
must adjust the amount on their character sheet.
When all points have been used, the Company cannot
spend any more Fellowship. Fellowship points are fully
refreshed at the end of each gaming session.
Since Fellowship
is a common pool of points shared by all
Player-heroes,
any expenditure must be agreed upon by all
Player-heroes
in the Company.
fellowship
focus
A Company’s Fellowship
rating represents the loyalty that
adventurers feel towards each other. But some of them might
share an additional level of companionship with another
member of the Company. Such a bond may be due to the
respect felt for someone wiser or nobler, a special friendship
shared with an old acquaintance, the kinship shared with
a fellow compatriot, the deep affection for a dear family
member, or even pity for someone considered to be weak
or unfit for adventuring.
Each player can choose one member of the Company
as their Player-hero’s
Fellowship
Focus (players can
also opt for choosing their Fellowship
Focus later, at
any point during a game).
Players are free to indicate any other Player-hero
as their
choice, even one that has already been chosen by someone
else. The bond doesn’t have to be mutual: a hero who has
been chosen by another hero as a Fellowship
Focus is free
to choose any other character as their own.
In game terms, Player-heroes
provide a greater advantage
when they help their Fellowship
focus:
Player-heroes
providing support to their Fellowship
Focus make them gain (2d) instead of (1d).
But the benefit of caring for someone comes at a price:
Player-heroes
gain 1 Shadow point whenever their
Fellowship
Focus is Wounded, suffers a bout of madness,
or is otherwise seriously harmed (this Shadow
gain cannot be prevented with a Shadow Test — see
page 137).
EXAMPLE:
As seen in the example for support on page 21, a Hobbit
burglar is receiving support from her Barding companion
to open a locked Dwarven door. The support action
gains the Hobbit a bonus Success die. If the burglar was
the Barding’s Fellowship
Focus, the Hobbit would gain
(2d) instead of (1d).